Add option to use deep embedders for QA (#147)
cisco/mindmeld: source/userguide/kb.rst

	To delete and reindex your data, follow the steps mentioned :ref:`here <import_kb>`.

.. _semantic_embeddings:

Leveraging semantic embeddings
------------------------------

> Up until now, the described Question Answering relies on text based retrieval. Deep learning based dense embeddings (character, word, or sentence) are in many cases better at capturing semantic information than traditional sparse vectors. Pretrained or fine-tuned embeddings can be used to find the best match in the Knowledge Base even if the search token wasn’t present in the uploaded data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The question answerer capabilities described so far rely purely on text-based retrieval. Deep learning based dense embeddings (character, word, or sentence) are in many cases better at capturing semantic information than traditional sparse vectors. Pretrained or fine-tuned embeddings can be used to find the best match in the knowledge base even if the search token wasn’t present in the uploaded data.
```

> To leverage semantic embeddings in search, the first step is to generate the embeddings for your desired Knowledge Base fields. You can decide to use one of the provided embedders, or you can use your own. If you app consists of mainly standard English vocabulary, one of provided embedders may work well enough, but if the text you are searching against has quite a bit of domain specific vocabulary, you may benefit from training or fine tuning your own embedder on your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To leverage semantic embeddings in search, the first step is to generate the embeddings for your desired knowledge base fields. You can use one of the provided embedders or use your own. If your app mainly consists of standard English vocabulary, one of provided embedders may work well enough, but if the text you are searching against has quite a bit of domain specific vocabulary, you may benefit from training or fine tuning your own embedder on your data.
```

> To use one of the built in embedders, you can simply specify an emedder ``model_type`` in your Question Answering config file, specify which model you would like to use ``model_settings``, and specify which fields you would like to generate embeddings for in ``embedding_fields``. The embedding fields parameter takes a dictionary where the key is the name of your index, and the value is a list of field names or regexes to match against the field names for that index. Using the HR Assistant blueprint as an example, here is what the config would look like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The settings for semantic embeddings are part of the ``QUESTION_ANSWERER_CONFIG`` in the app configuration file, ``config.py``. To use semantic embeddings, you need to specify a supported ``model_type``,  the ``model_settings``, and the fields you would like to generate embeddings for in ``embedding_fields``. The ``embedding_fields`` parameter takes a dictionary where the key is the name of your index, and the value is a list of field names or regexes to match against the field names for that index.

Using the HR Assistant blueprint as an example, here is what the question answerer config could look like.
```

.. code:: python

  QUESTION_ANSWERER_CONFIG = {
      "model_type": "embedder",
      "model_settings": {
          "embedder_type": "bert",
          "embedding_fields": {
              "faq_data": ["question", "answer"]
          }
      }
  }

There are three available model types which leverage semantic embedders. The specified ``model_type`` is also the default ``query_type`` for all question answering calls for your application, but you can always pass in a different query type to your ``qa.get()`` command as desired.

  +-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>   | Model type            | Description                                                                                                |

Reviewer: Could you change the descriptions to:

Only leverage deep semantic embedders. This option allows for using deep semantic embedders like Sentence-BERT or GloVe for doing vector-based retrieval.

Leverage a combination of deep semantic embedders and text signals in a way that's optimized for search on keywords or short spans of text. GloVe is preferable for this use case.

Leverage a combination of deep semantic embedders and text signals in a way that's optimized for search on larger paragraphs or passages of unstructured text. Sentence-BERT is preferable for this use case.

Author: Fixed

  +=======================+============================================================================================================+
  | embedder              | For leveraging deep semantic embedders. This option allows for using deep semantic embedders like          |
  |                       | sentence bert for doing vector-based retrieval                                                             |
  +-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
  | embedder_keyword      | For leveraging deep semantic embedders and text signals for structured search on keywords or short spans   |

>   |                       | of text. Glove as an additional signal has shown improvements in this use case.                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  |                       | of text. GloVe as an additional signal has shown improvements in this use case.                            |
```

  +-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
  | embedder_text         | For leveraging deep semantic embedders and text signals for unstructured search on larger paragraphs or    |
  |                       | passages. BERT as an additional signal has shown improvements in this use case.                            |
  +-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> The two included embedder types are `Sentence BERT <https://github.com/UKPLab/sentence-transformers>`_ and `GloVe <https://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/glove/>`_. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The two included embedder types are `Sentence-BERT <https://github.com/UKPLab/sentence-transformers>`_ and `GloVe <https://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/glove/>`_. 
```

> Sentence BERT is a modification of the pretrained BERT network that use siamese and triplet network structures to derive semantically meaningful sentence embeddings that can be compared using cosine-similarity. To use this embedder type, you can specify ``bert`` as the ``embedder_type`` in the ``model_settings``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sentence-BERT is a modification of the pretrained BERT network that use siamese and triplet network structures to derive semantically meaningful sentence embeddings that can be compared using cosine-similarity. To use this embedder type, you can specify ``bert`` as the ``embedder_type`` in the ``model_settings``.
```

Reviewer: @arushir - Is there a chance that we might ever support the vanilla BERT as a built-in option? If there's a chance for that, I'd prefer calling this ``embedder_type`` as 'sentence-bert' (instead of just 'bert'). But if we're fairly certain that this adaption of BERT is the only one we'll natively support for question answering, I'm OK with calling it 'bert' for simplicity.

> Multiple models fine-tuned on BERT / RoBERTa / DistilBERT / ALBERT / XLNet are provided. The available models are specified `here <https://github.com/UKPLab/sentence-transformers#english-pre-trained-models>`_, and the specific trained model can be specified via the ``model_name`` parameter in the ``model_settings`` section of the config. The default is ``bert-base-nli-mean-tokens`` which is a BERT model trained on the `SNLI <https://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/snli/>`_ and `MultiNLI <https://cims.nyu.edu/~sbowman/multinli/>`_ datasets with mean-tokens pooling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multiple models fine-tuned on BERT / RoBERTa / DistilBERT / ALBERT / XLNet are provided. You can view the full list  `here <https://github.com/UKPLab/sentence-transformers#english-pre-trained-models>`_, and specify your choice of pre-trained model via the ``model_name`` parameter in the ``model_settings`` section of the config. The default is ``bert-base-nli-mean-tokens`` which is a BERT model trained on the `SNLI <https://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/snli/>`_ and `MultiNLI <https://cims.nyu.edu/~sbowman/multinli/>`_ datasets with mean-tokens pooling.
```

> The provided GloVe embeddings are word vectors trained on the `Wikipedia <https://dumps.wikimedia.org/>`_ and `Gigaword 5 <https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC2011T07>`_ datasets. To use this embedder type, you can specify ``glove`` as the ``embedder_type`` in the ``model_settings``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The provided GloVe embeddings are word vectors trained on the `Wikipedia <https://dumps.wikimedia.org/>`_ and `Gigaword 5 <https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC2011T07>`_ datasets. To use this embedder type, specify ``glove`` as the ``embedder_type`` in the ``model_settings``.
```

> The 50, 100, 200, and 300 dimension word embeddings are provided. The desired dimension can be specified via the ``token_embedding_dimension`` in the ``model_settings`` section of the config. For fields with more than one token, word vector averaging is used. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 50, 100, 200, and 300 dimension word embeddings are supported. The desired dimension can be specified via the ``token_embedding_dimension`` in the ``model_settings`` section of the config. For fields with more than one token, word vector averaging is used. 
```

> The 50, 100, 200, and 300 dimension word embeddings are provided. The desired dimension can be specified via the ``token_embedding_dimension`` in the ``model_settings`` section of the config. For fields with more than one token, word vector averaging is used. 

Reviewer: @arushir Do we choose a default dimension size if ``token_embedding_dimension`` is not provided by the user? Is so, mention it here.

Author: Default is 300, will add that

Once your config file is specified, you can load the Knowledge Base and the embeddings will automatically be generated as specified in the config and stored in your index as dense vectors. Note that you must pass the application path in order for the config to be processed. This can be done via the CLI command with the ``--app-path`` option or via the ``app_path`` parameter for the ``load_kb`` method.

.. code-block:: console

>   mindmeld load-kb hr_assistant faq_emb data/hr_faq_data.jsonl --app_path ./

Reviewer: @arushir Does ``--app_path .`` (i.e. without the `/`) not work?

Author: That works as well, can update it

> All of the vectors generated at load time will be cached for faster retrieval at inference time and for future loads. It is stored with other generated data in the generated folder under the provided model name. It’s important to update the mode name when updating the model settings to maintain consistency with the cache. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of the vectors generated at load time will be cached for faster retrieval at inference time and for future loads. It is stored with other cached data in the ``.generated`` folder under the provided model name. It’s important to update the model name when updating the model settings to maintain consistency with the cache. 
```

Reviewer: @arushir I suppose that this warning of "It’s important to update the mode name when updating the model settings to maintain consistency with the cache." is only important for developers who define their own custom embeddings? If so, it may be good to move this sentence to a note box, following your explanation of custom-defined embeddings.

Author: This is actually needed for the glove embeddings as well in some cases. The built in implementation (adapted from entity recognition) allows the user to provide a file path location for the embeddings along with the dimensionality of the embeddings. If they have different embeddings stored in different file path, for example, they would have to update the model name accordingly to match.

.. code-block:: console

  .generated/indexes/<model_name>_cache.pkl

> If instead you would like to use your own embedder, you can use the provided ``Embedder`` abstract class. You need to implement two methods: ``load`` and ``encode``. The load method will load and return your embedder model. The encode method will take a list of text strings and return a list of numpy vectors. You can register your class for use with MindMeld via the ``register_embedder`` method as shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If our built-in embedders don't fit your use case and you would like to use your own embedder, you can use the provided ``Embedder`` abstract class. You need to implement two methods: ``load`` and ``encode``. The load method will load and return your embedder model. The encode method will take a list of text strings and return a list of numpy vectors. You can register your class for use with MindMeld via the ``register_embedder`` method as shown below.
```

.. code-block:: python

  from mindmeld.models import Embedder, register_embedder 
  
  class MyEmbedder(Embedder): 
      def load(self, **kwargs): 
          # return the loaded model 
      def encode(self, text_list): 
          # encodes each query in the list  

  register_embedder('my_embedder_name', MyEmbedder) 

> In many cases, you may like to provide some parameters to your load method to initialize your model in a certain way. The ``model_settings`` dictionary in the config will be passed to the load method as kwargs, so any needed parameters can be specified there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In many cases, you may like to provide some parameters to your ``load`` method to initialize your model in a certain way. The ``model_settings`` dictionary in the config will be passed to the load method as ``kwargs``, so any needed parameters can be specified there.
```

.. code-block:: python

  QUESTION_ANSWERER_CONFIG = { 
      "model_type": "embedder", 
      "model_settings": { 
          "embedder_type": "my_embedder_name", 
          "some_model_param": "my_model_param", 
          "embedding_fields": {"faq": ['question', 'answer']} 
      } 
  } 

> Once your KB has been created, to search the knowledge base leveraging vector similarity, we will use the :meth:`get()` API as before with one small modification. We set the ``query_type`` parameter to ``embedder``, ``embedder_keyword``, or ``embedder_text``. This will automatically find results for which the embedded search fields are close in cosine similarity to the embedded query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your knowledge base has been created, to search it while leveraging vector similarity, we will use the :meth:`get()` API as before with one small modification. We set the ``query_type`` parameter to ``embedder``, ``embedder_keyword``, or ``embedder_text``. This will automatically find results for which the embedded search fields are close in cosine similarity to the embedded query.
```

	To delete and reindex your data, follow the steps mentioned :ref:`here <import_kb>`.

.. _semantic_embeddings:

Leveraging semantic embeddings
------------------------------
The question answerer capabilities described so far rely purely on text-based retrieval. Deep learning based dense embeddings (character, word, or sentence) are in many cases better at capturing semantic information than traditional sparse vectors. Pretrained or fine-tuned embeddings can be used to find the best match in the knowledge base even if the search token wasn’t present in the uploaded data.

> To leverage semantic embeddings in search, the first step is to generate the embeddings for your desired knowledge base fields. You can use one of the provided embedders or use your own. If your app mainly consists of standard English vocabulary, one of provided embedders may work well enough, but if the text you are searching against has quite a bit of domain specific vocabulary, you may benefit from training or fine tuning your own embedder on your data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To leverage semantic embeddings in search, the first step is to generate the embeddings for your desired knowledge base fields. You can use one of the provided embedders or use your own. If your app mainly consists of standard English vocabulary, one of the provided embedders may work well enough, but if the text you are searching against has quite a bit of domain-specific vocabulary, you may benefit from training or fine tuning your own embedder on your data.
```

Using the HR Assistant blueprint as an example, here is what the question answerer config could look like.

.. code:: python

  QUESTION_ANSWERER_CONFIG = {
      "model_type": "embedder",
      "model_settings": {
          "embedder_type": "bert",
          "embedding_fields": {
              "faq_data": ["question", "answer"]
          }
      }
  }

There are three available model types which leverage semantic embedders. The specified ``model_type`` is also the default ``query_type`` for all question answering calls for your application, but you can always pass in a different query type to your ``qa.get()`` command as desired.

  +-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
  | Model type            | Description                                                                                                |
  +=======================+============================================================================================================+
  | embedder              | Only leverage deep semantic embedders. This option allows for using deep semantic embedders like           |

>   |                       | Sentence-BERT or GloVe for doing vector-based retrieval                                                    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  |                       | Sentence-BERT or GloVe for doing vector-based retrieval.                                                    |
```

	To delete and reindex your data, follow the steps mentioned :ref:`here <import_kb>`.

.. _semantic_embeddings:

Leveraging semantic embeddings
------------------------------
Up until now, the described Question Answering relies on text based retrieval. Deep learning based dense embeddings (character, word, or sentence) are in many cases better at capturing semantic information than traditional sparse vectors. Pretrained or fine-tuned embeddings can be used to find the best match in the Knowledge Base even if the search token wasn’t present in the uploaded data.

> To leverage semantic embeddings in search, the first step is to store the embeddings in your Knowledge Base. You can decide to use one of the provided embedders, or you can use your own. If you app consists of mainly standard English vocabulary, one of provided embedders may work well enough, but if the text you are searching against has quite a bit of domain specific vocabulary, you may benefit from training or fine tuning your own embedder on your data.

Reviewer 3: Typo in the 3rd sentence: "If your app .."

To use one of the built in embedders, you can simply specify ``embedder`` as the ``model_type`` in your Question Answering config file, specify which model you would like to use ``model_settings``, and specify which fields you would like to generate embeddings for in ``embedding_fields``. Using the HR Assistant blueprint as an example, here is what the config would look like.

.. code:: python

  QUESTION_ANSWERER_CONFIG = {
      "model_type": "embedder",
      "model_settings": {
          "embedder_type": "bert",
          "trained_data": "bert-base-nli-mean-tokens",
          "embedding_fields": ['question', 'answer']
      }
  }

Here is the full list of included models. 

# TODO: add table.

> One your config file is specified, you can load the Knowledge Base with the embeddings by passing in the flag ``--generate-embeddings`` or ``-g`` to the ``load-kb`` CLI command. Or the parameter ``generate_embeddings=True`` to the ``load_kb`` method. This will generate embeddings for each of the config specified fields and adds them to your json file before loading.

Reviewer 3: "Once your config file is specified..."
